Is there a way to create a version
of styling typography in figma?
>> For example?
>> For example, let's say our in
house UI component libraries on
the latest version with the new
styling and typography,
but our old products use
the old version of the library.
For some reason, we're not able
to bump the version I don't know.
Seems like a very specific question.
>> Yeah, one of the things that
you can't do that just may or
may not answer the question
I wish you could do in
figma is like cool we have
a team library or whatever.
But then also like, I wish I could
override it for this design,
like sometimes it's like, cool,
the design system has moved on, but
everyone's got that legacy
app that can't get updated.
It's like cool new
design systems in react.
We got a backbone app over there.
Did what I mean I wish you could
like override versions of it.
But it's like the overall
design system has moved on, and
they're using the library other
than having two libraries and
like having the like,
effectively, we had to do this,
which is like we had the old version and
the new version.
And different themes that we
had to use in both places.
For things we couldn't update I don't
know if that answers the question.
So another question is it recommend to
start components from scratch or use
some predefined material design components
and just you use it depends right.
I think that generally speaking,
if it's like, hey,
we're a brand new project, yeah.
Go grab material, UI,
chakra, UI, whatever, right?
And start with that versus, I'm now
gonna build basic functionality and
get a proof of concept in place and also
develop a design system at the same time.
Now at Temporal, for instance, we were
working on for a brand identity as well,
right and so like the UI needs to
match the overall brand aesthetic.
We were also using smell instead of
react where there were less pre existing
libraries to begin with right.
We did use tailwind that got
us like most of the way there,
right that had all the different kinds
of like Tokens that one might need.
And our design language is also
built on top of tail and so
do we grab a full set of components no.
But also that was part about using hipster
frameworks is that there wasn't as much
out there and
think it was a lot of times easier for
us to just style the button with tailwind,
which was like again, super simple.
You just string a bunch of
classes are mostly ready to go.
You can theme it that said if like you
don't have that whole idea of like we have
a brand identity yet we're just trying to
get something work again, grab material.
And like there are if you go into the
community section in figma there is like
a material UI.
A set of components that you can
just bring in and use, right?
Absolutely we're working
on 2.0 of our app.
So like the original one was,
I wasn't even to say that it was
a component library was generous.
It's just a thing, right?
But like,
this was the kind of like refresh and
stuff along those lines for us.
But yeah,
I think there's nothing wrong with
pulling in a component library all right.
Yeah, there was a question
about recommended plugins.
I left a link to a bunch.
This is my favorite named one, but
you can just try like content
released by Microsoft.
I have a few installed,there is iconified,
which is just like every icon library, and
you can just drag them in, so
you don't have to like download them all.
With that said, like,
if you're gonna do that component trick,
just downloading the like Git repo of like
all the SVGs, dragging them into figma.
And making the component is way
easier than adding zahlen one by one.
But if you're just kind of like
proof of concept and something and
you need a house or whatever,
just like go grab it.
Content real is real cool.
Let's take a look at one real quick.
It basically gives you
the ability to like, let's see,
did I have a cool picture here?
Like preload, like dummy data, like
fake avatars and stuff along those lines
in the UI and kind of just have
some of that kind of in place.
So you'd not like dragging in a whole
bunch of pictures of users for
like a comment section or
something along those lines helps
you like load in some dummy data.
But yeah I put in a bunch of kind
of little ones in here like as well
that you can kind of try try out and
use to unsplashed just gives you
stock photography stuff like that.
But generally speaking I think I
said either during the break or
maybe we said it in part of the recording
when I feel like I need something like
accessibility to color contrasting
I will go to the community section.
I will hit plugins I will search
I will then sort by installs.
[LAUGH] and I will usually grab whatever
the most popular one is first and
then if it doesn't appeal to me then
I'll grab the next one as well.
But you can see like look it's on slash
and I kind of phi and content real and
a few other ones as well and
that is kind of like our.
I like high level kind of view of using
figma to both implement designs kind of
work with our designers to like organize
things in a way that makes sense for us.
But then also for
ourselves to begin to figure stuff out
because like I said in the very beginning.
This workshop, there's been plenty of
times where I've tried to build a feature
either when I didn't in the early days
in my current company where we didn't
have a designer yet, which is like, okay,
I know that we need to build these things.
And a lot of times it was about
getting the data abstractions, right?
But it's kinda out take lucky guesses,
right?
There's a term of art something around and
find out.
But like to figure out how to work versus
like actually being able to conceptualize
it I think it works really well kind
of put it in front of customers also
like being able to work with the tool.
And understand like how how to play or
how that helps you.
Figuring out the alignment,
what CSS you might need also bring order.
So if you just expect the designer
on your team to know how to
organize everything and
how to lay everything out.
So that it works for engineers,
that's kind of just putting the on
us on one-half of the equation.
Engineering and
design should be a partnership.
So this gives you the ability to kind of
be an equal player in there as well and
collaborate or build some designs
yourself right both are possible.
But I think like we think a lot about
the term like full stack developer
right which is there are jokes
to be made about that.
Whereas like cool back end and
front end, but
like, that's not all of a product, right?
And do you need to be an expert?
Maybe not right.
And but like, should you have
familiarity with the old the,
kind of like entire pipeline of
building products for your customers?
My argument is yes,right.
And so this helps you get to kind of round
yourself out whether it's kind of just
one more tool.
Do you have at your disposal or thing
that you're using to kinda decide what
you're building I think both
become a lot more possible and
I think that figma is
incredibly powerful tool.
And something that like just be being
more comfortable to tool has been a great
advantage for me as I kind of build and
implement do my just day to day job,
above and
beyond just side products as well.
Awesome, thank you so much.
[APPLAUSE]